WA. This strategy actually works.
There's a guy on Instagram who claims to
have made over a million dollars day
trading just one simple trading
strategy. Here, check it out.
>> What in your opinion is the easiest and
most profitable trading setup?
>> 8 a.m. break and retest strategy. So,
this strategy is very simple. All you
have to do is mark out the first
15-minute candle from 8 to 8:15 a.m.
Eastern Standard Time. You do this on
the 15-minute time frame. Once you have
this level marked out, you wait for 9:30
a.m. Eastern Standard Time, which is
when the US stock market opens. Price is
either going to break to the upside of
the zone or to the downside, depending
on which direction it breaks to. That's
how you form your buy. So, if it breaks
to the upside, you take longs when we
get a retest of this zone, specifically
when we get a retest of the midpoint of
the zone, and you target 20 points, and
you have a fivepoint stop-loss. And you
do the opposite to this when you are
targeting the downside. So, it's an
opening range breakout strategy with two
key differences. First, his range is
only the 8:15 candle, just the high and
low of the time between 8:00 and 8:15.
And two, he is not entering the breakout
of this range. He is instead waiting for
a retest of the midline of the range.
So, of course, today we are going to be
building an automated back test in
Thinker Swim so that we can test this
strategy and probably prove its BS like
most of what you see on Instagram. Of
course, the first thing that we need to
do is we need to create a study that
plots out that range of 8:00 to 8:15.
Real quick, while I'm working on the
code in the background, I want to let
you know about my brand new realtime
stock scanner. If you always find
yourself a little bit too late to
breakouts, then you need yourself a tool
like this so that you can find stocks
the instant that they start moving. The
tool's only been out a few weeks and
already received hundreds of positive
reviews. It's just a website. There's
nothing you need to download. It's not
tied to any specific brokerage. If you
have an internet connection, you can use
this scanner and you can access it by
heading on over to my website,
daytradingstrategies.net, net which will
be linked in the description down below
and clicking on this purple get scanner
button in the header. All right, I got
it done. Here is the study that is
painting the range from high to low on
the 8:15 a.m. candle as well as the
midpoint represented by this yellow
dotted line. If you are interested in
this study, I will put a share link to
this completely for free in the
description down below. Now comes the
much more difficult part, right? We need
to actually build a strategy that
simulates the trades described in that
Instagram video so that we can collect
the data and see if it actually works or
not. So if the opening range is broken
or the 815 range should I say in this
case is broken to the upside we need to
be entering long on retest of the
midpoint. If it breaks the low we need
to be entering shorts on the retest of
the midpoint. So on this day, there
would have been no trades. After the
break, you never got a retest. That's
fine. A strategy like this is not going
to trade every single day. Here, looking
back at some past days right here, we
should have entered short because you
got a breakdown, then a retest, enter
short at that midline. Same thing here.
You got a breakdown, retest of that
midpoint. We should be entering the
trade there for a short. So, let me get
to work and see if I can figure this
out. Whoa. this strategy actually works.
Firstly, let me make sure you understand
all the visuals now happening on this
chart. These labels that you see up
here, not part of the strategy. This is
my custom back test data study that I've
built and I have published over on
daytradingstrategies.net.
This is just showing you the statistics
of said strategy. And then this floating
P&L study down here on the bottom, this
isn't even something custom. This is
something that you can turn on out of
the box in Think or Swim. It just keeps
the running total over time of the
profit loss on the strategy on the
chart. Now, let's talk about the
strategy itself. First off, that video
was about S&P 500 futures. So, that is
what we are running this on to start
with just to align with his ideas. But
later in this video, we will see if we
can't get this same exact strategy or
one very similar to it to also be
profitable on stocks. So hang around for
that. But right now, we are looking at
the E- mini S&P 500 index futures.
Obviously, we are painting the high
point and the low point and the midline
on the 8:15 a.m. candle. We then don't
allow the strategy to enter trades until
after 9:30. That's something else he
talks about. You're marking this line
out before market open. You begin
trading after market open. Another sort
of admin tip I will throw in here. I'm
only allowing the strategy to trade once
per day. So like if the strategy keeps
retesting over and over and over,
whatever, it only takes one trade a day.
Okay? So you get the breakout to the
upside. That is your trigger that we are
now long biased. I've actually included
a label that you may have noticed with
that as well. It currently says we are
long biased because the most recent day
our break of the level was to the
upside. So when that break occurs, we
are long biased, which means of course
we are awaiting to see if we get a
retest of this midpoint on the 8:15 a.m.
candle to enter long. Of course, here we
do. We get long at about 6995
on the futures. Now, by default, as RP
talked about in his short reel there, he
sets a fivepoint stop-loss and a 20
point takerit. He is doing 4:1 reward to
risk on his trades. So, we get in this
trade once again at about 6995. You do
get a pullback, but the low of this
candle is only to 6992 and a half.
That's 2 and 1/2 points down, not five
points down. So obviously we don't get
stopped out of the trade. We do get out
of the trade up here over 7,014.
So you get your not quite five point
move down. You don't get stopped out.
You go ahead and lock in profit at your
20 points up. I'll also show you a fun
example of the short side trade working
here. So of course on this day, mark out
the high, midpoint, and low of our 8:15
a.m. candle. the low of this candle
breaks and then also the 930 candle that
is this red candle right here where we
can begin taking trades pushes up retest
the midpoint of the breakout level and
all in the same candle also retraces
back down 20 points. So in this same
candle here you sort of get your
entrance and your takerit immediately. I
just want to also point out that you'll
see here like it's got zero on the
retest and zero on the target hit. So,
it looks like it didn't actually enter
the trade, but you can tell here from
the P&L increasing by $100,000 that the
trade was still correctly simulated.
This is just and without getting too
technical, this is a limitation of
Thinker Swim. It won't actually paint
the trade until the close of the next
candle. So if something like this
happens, it all sort of happens right
away. So the paint looks wrong. But
don't worry, the the correct P&L is
still being tracked as expected here.
Actually, I don't really know why. I
guess just because we were talking about
a 15-minute candle on that example, we
were looking at the 15minute chart. I've
come down now. We are now looking at the
5-minute chart, and we're looking at
that same exact trade. So that you can
see it spread out a little bit. Of
course, here right before 9:30, you get
a break down of our 8:15 range, which
means that our bias is to the short
side. Once you get your push back up,
retest that midline. You can now see the
entrance short, and you can see the
actual ticks that took it down to profit
here on the smaller time frame. And
obviously as returning subscribers to
this YouTube channel will know I always
like to show you the strategies losing
as well so that you understand yes the
strategies are still going to take
losses. Here is your high to low to
midpoint print of the distance from 8 to
8:15 on the 5-minute chart. Obviously
your last most close push out was to the
upside. So you are long bias. you enter
back long at the midpoint and rather
than getting a 20 point push up first,
you get a fivepoint push down. In this
instance, it's a little bit sad because
you got a nice push, didn't quite get
there, got pushed down, just barely got
stopped out before a rip. So, this one
was really close to working. It would be
a really sad one to watch, but uh hey,
that's day trading, isn't it? We'll just
stick here on this next trade because it
segus nicely into what I want to talk
about next. So on the strategy code
itself as well obviously you can also
choose when you want to start and stop.
So if you don't want to use the same 8
to 815 range that RP profits used, you
can change that. You can change when you
want your trading to start. If you don't
want it to start at opening bell, you
want it to start at some point during
pre-market, you can change that. And
then obviously you can also change your
win to loss points here. So instead of
five points down, if we made it 10
points down, I bet this trade would be a
win. Yes, of course, because you didn't
quite get stopped out before this rip
up. So this would have turned into a win
in this case. Obviously, you can't be
adjusting strategies just for one simple
use case. But I I I just wanted to show
that off there quickly. Let's actually
look. We're up $710,000.
Now, if I go back to five points, we are
actually only up 50,000.
Okay, we can we can start to uh that'll
be the next step of this video. Let's
start to finagle some of these numbers
that Mr. RP Profits gave us with his orb
strategy and maybe see if we can find
something that works even a little bit
better even here on the S&P 500 futures.
Then remember later in this video we're
also going to see if we can't find a way
to get a similar strategy to work on
stocks. Also um I won't lie to you guys
actually on the 5minut time frame here
the strategy doesn't look as good as it
did on the 15minute time frame. I think
on the 15minute time frame we were
getting a little bit of cheating in
where a certain candle would have so
much data that both the stop and the
loss would be true in the same candle
and it was always prioritizing the
profit over the stop. So coming down to
these smaller time frame like this of
course we are not seeing that happen as
much because you get much more you know
you get many more candles printed in
between the data points so that that
optimization for the strategy is not
happening. So let's actually go back. So
obviously I went back to my 20 points up
five points down. Let's go back to our
20 points up 10 points down here on the
5minut time frame and let's start to
look through this. So once again, now
we're back up 710,000.
This just immediately looks a lot
better. This is over the last 180
trading days. So you have a lot of data
going on here. $710,000
up is a lot nicer. So that's uh a good
place for us to start. Let's actually
like even try to tighten it up a little
bit more. What if we just went one to
one here? What if we just said 10 points
up, 10 points down? Go ahead and run
this. Oh, okay. It It took a second for
it to load in. Okay, that's even much
better. You can see with these tweaks,
of course, you're like, "Well, Trey,
you're making your win to loss ratio
worse and worse. How is that making the
strategy better?" Because the win
percentage is skyrocketing. On the 4:1,
our win percentage was at 30%, I
believe. On our one one, the win
percentage is all the way up now to 58%.
So, now we're up over a million dollar
in the last 180 trading days. Okay, this
is this is getting more and more
interesting. I'm going to keep uh we're
not going to sit here and like need to
live record the whole thing, but I'm
going to keep tweaking some of these
numbers. I can see if I can figure out
exactly what's going on behind the
scenes that makes it happen. See if I
can't optimize for what makes the most
money. That way, I can just come back
and tell you instead of you needing to
watch the process. All right, so I
figured out something slightly wonky
that's going on. I've made my profit
points all the way down to only one. So,
we're just looking for one point up,
risking 10 points down. And you can see
our win percentage is now at 100%. Well,
that's because just as sort of I was
alluding to earlier, the way the code is
set up is that it is looking to take
profit first. And every single candle on
a on a stock that has this large of a
range, every single candle at least has
one point up from the entrance level,
even if it might have gone 10 points
down first. So, it's always just locking
in that profit. The way I'm going to try
to fix this, I'm going to come into the
strategy code here. We'll come down to
the orders and we're going to put the
stoploss exits actually above the profit
take exits because if you don't know,
computers read code top down just like a
book. So, now putting the take loss
orders over the take-profit orders, it
will prioritize those first. So if the
stock goes down 10 points from entrance,
it will go ahead and say yes, you lost
in this trade rather than you just
arbitrarily won in this trade. That is a
much I think safer way to build out this
test. Let's prioritize the losses over
the wins. Obviously on just one point
up, you can still see our win percentage
is at 95%. Total P&L drops all the way
down to 235,000,
though. Let's now go back to that 1 one,
that 10 up, 10 down, and let's take a
look at the statistics now. Okay, we are
now up, well, I think we're up like 1.7
million before. We're out now up 950,000
on a 57% win rate. This seems this seems
more realistic. This seems more correct.
I've been building these codes now for
over 6 years. I sort of can tell when
something is wrong. Like, these numbers
seem unreasonable. like it's
unreasonable to expect a strategy to
perform this well. What's going on? And
I think we just fixed it now by
prioritizing losses. Like, hey, if there
is a 10point up and down range, take the
loss rather than take the profit. That
pretty much protects us from all
cheating, right? If cuz actually there's
going to be cases where the candle went
up 10 points first before going down 10
points, but our code is going to
prioritize that loss. So, we're actually
maybe even overprotecting oursel now,
but it's better to be overprotective and
see maybe some worse numbers in our back
test than we would expect in live
trading rather than seeing cheating
better numbers in our back test than we
might expect during live trading. If we
can overprotect ourselves and still make
the back test safe and profitable, we're
in a good spot. So, check this out. I've
actually flipped what Mr. RP profit said
should be our profit and our stop loss.
He had a profit of 20 points, a stop of
five points. I've actually gone the
other way. A 1:4 winto- loss ratio. Five
points up, 20 points down. Obviously,
now our losers are going to be much
bigger than our winners, but that can
still be profitable on a high enough win
rate, which you can see is now at 75%
on the 5minute time frame over the last
180 days. puts this strategy up $1.2
million. Now, I will say you can sort of
ignore like the gross profit in this
because this is simulating trading 100
contracts of the ES mini futures each
time, which unless you have a lot of
money, you're probably not trading that
many contracts. The total number doesn't
really matter. It's more just does this
actually work or not. But anyway, you
can see now average win $25,000, average
loss $42,000.
So the average loss is much bigger than
the average win but on that win
percentage that makes this quite
profitable actually much better than how
we set it up by default how Mr. RP
wanted us to do it 20 to5. If we go 20
to five and take a look at our
statistics actually now we are back into
red. It actually doesn't work like this
anymore. Remember we've changed it now
to prioritize the losses over the wins.
It doesn't even work anymore now at 20
to five on the five minute time frame.
So actually taking his idea, this is I
would still definitely call this his
idea, but flipping the profit and the
stop idea to be much quicker on the
profit, much longer on the stop seems to
make the strategy much better. I'll just
show you a couple trades here and then
we're going to take this code and see if
we can't get it to work on stocks. So
mark out the high and low from 8 to 8:30
and the midpoint. You get a break down,
you are short bias on the retest of the
midpoint after 9:30. This is the 9:30
candle here. You get short at the
midpoint. You don't quite get a
fivepoint move down. You only get
actually a like three and a half, four
point move down here before you get your
20 point move up and get stopped out of
the trade. Let's go find another winner.
We can go look at the most recent day.
Actually, once again, this occurs on the
9:30 candle. 8 to 8:30, sorry, 8 to
8:15, sorry, high to low and midpoint
are marked out. At 9:30, you get a
pullback to the midpoint. You get in and
you get out just five points up. So,
actually a little sad here because you
get a massive move up, but the strategy
is only locking in the five points of
profit. As you can see, hopefully you
can see that little purple tick there.
That is where you're getting out of the
trade. Obviously, it all repaints on
this next candle. So, it all looks
weird, but you can actually see the
ticks where the strategy conditions are
being simulated here, which is correct.
And the P&L is tracking correctly. So,
everything seems to be working. It
doesn't seem to be cheating at all.
Let's now once again see if we can't
just take this same idea and go apply it
to stocks. Like, let's go look at Nvidia
and see what it looks like here. Now, of
course, we're going to have to change
our logic a little bit to a lot because
we're looking at it's going to take a
while to load in. We're looking at five
points and 20 points. That's going to be
a lot of movement on a stock. So, we
need to find a way to
centralize all that. Instead, my first
idea is to use the ATR study. So, what
the ATR study does is it measures the
average true range. So, the average
distance from high to low over the
previous 14 candles and do something
like ATR*
4 for your stop loss and ATR* 1 for your
profit take. That way, we can normalize
the entrance and exit conditions rather
than just a straight five and 20 points
like we were using on the S&P futures.
Wait, I I have built the strategy now to
work with ATR. So it is normalized to
work on stocks. But I found a little bit
more cheating in the code. Things were
being portrayed a little bit better than
what was realistic. Namely in like a
trade like this one. I have fixed it
now. So this is all fixed code. But what
was happening before is the strategy was
entering here at the midpoint but then
it would ignore the low of this candle.
So like you wouldn't get stopped out
after buying here because it would
ignore the low of this candle since the
entrance wasn't actually painting until
the next candle. I have fixed that. So
now you can see this is a losing trade
because you get in at the midpoint and
then the low of this candle continues
down. So our ATR times 1, which is
currently what the setup is. I'll talk
about that in just a second. Just if if
this makes no sense, I've been working
now for a little over an hour on the
code. I don't remember exactly where I
was talking to you all, but just know
that I fixed the cheating is what I'm
trying to get at. Everything I talked
about before was a little bit off. But
anyway, it works now. And with it
working now, I've actually gone back and
found the 4:1 profit multiple to stop
loss to be better. Like if I adjust this
back to one to four like we were doing
before, the strategy is now much worse.
So, sorry RP profits. I'll go back to
what you said. you tell it the right
way, it is more better to be at a 4:1
profit to stop. So now in normalizing
this for stocks, you can see that we're
not like we're not looking for four
points up or one point down. What we're
doing and you can see that multiple
there is we're looking for four times
the value of the ATR for our profit take
and one time the value of the ATR for
our stop-loss. So if I can come out here
and we can go look at a profitable
trade. Let's go take a look at this one.
We get in short. So before 8:30 or or at
8:30, high, low, midpoint, 8:15. I keep
saying 8:30. Sorry. 8:15. High, low,
midpoint. Break down. You're looking for
a retest of the short side. You get
that, then your ATR value is at 4.8.
Call it five. That means 5* 4, you're
looking for two points down. You're
short around 192. You get out around
190. That's what I'm talking about. Now,
on the normalization of the profit, we
can't just like look for X points up and
X points down because that will vary
very differently depending on what kind
of stock you're looking at. So, these
are the statistics on the 5minute chart
for the last 180 days on Nvidia. I'm
going to flick around and look at some
more charts now, and we'll see the
performance of it and maybe find uh a
style of stock that this strategy works
the best for. funnily enough, this is
the performance on the S&P 500 ETF. SPY,
not bad at all on the S&P 500. You have
a really low win rate, which I guess is
to be expected when you're trading a 4:1
reward to risk ratio, but profitable
over time. Remember, this whole idea was
built around futures, was trading
futures. So, you were looking for much
more volatility even in smaller moves.
futures, just like options, just like
forex. It's all like extreme
leveragebased stuff. So, I don't know.
This idea might just not translate to
stock trading all that well. And I'll
tell you what I'm going to do for you.
This is not my idea. Listen, I took all
of this from a video that I found on
Instagram. I just recreated it in
Thinkorswim, but I'm not going to try to
sell you this like it's my idea. So,
just as I mentioned earlier that the
study that paints out the 815 high, low,
and midpoint will be free in the
description down below this video. I'm
also going to make this strategy code
free in the description down below this
video. Both share codes will be down
there. All you need to do is copy them
in your Thinkorswim application, set up
in the top right, open shared item,
paste preview, and import that link, and
you can have these codes in your own
Thinker Swim. I do that so that you can
then come in and you can mess around
with some of these numbers. Maybe find
multiples that work better for you.
Maybe find times that work better for
you. Set up sort of your own opening
range breakout test. Find what works for
you. Of course, this will be a lot
easier if you also have access to my
custom back test data labels here that
you get when you sign up to
daytradingstrategies.net.
But uh that's just me trying to sell you
on something. If you are interested in
accessing over 150 plus custom Thinker
Swimcoded studies, strategies, scanners,
etc., they are all available on my
website daytradingst strategies.net. You
can sign up using the green button here.
And guess what? That live stock scanner
that I mentioned in the intro of this
video, you will also get access to that.
I'm not charging separate like for my
codes and my scanner. They're just a
bundle. You get access to both. So, for
33 bucks a month with the annual plan,
you can get access to a live real-time
stock scanner and 150 plus trading
codes. And with the annual plan and the
annual plan only, you also get lifetime
access to our trading discord, which
currently consists of over 1,700
members, a lot of people that have
signed up for the annual plan. It's a
lot of eyes on the market. I truly
believe the fastest way to become a
better trader is to be in a community of
like-minded traders, which is why I
created this guys. The the scanner
itself worth $33 a month. If you go look
at competitors, the 150 plus trading
codes itself worth $33 a month. I know
it is cuz I sold thousands of
memberships ever before launching the
scanner. So, I have market research on
that. And then the Discord access, I
mean, that could be worth hundreds of
dollars a month if you guys see what
other people are charging for theirs.
You get access to all three for just $33
a month. And those of you that have
watched to the end of my video, I know
you're very serious about this. So, you
can even use coupon code save 20 at
checkout. You're going to get access to
all of that for now less than $320.
Less than a dollar a day. You get access
to the livestock scanner, to the codes,
to the Discord, all of it. Just an
insane deal. Maybe read the reviews
while you're over on the website. Help
decide for yourself if this is something
that could help accelerate your personal
trading journey. Sign up today and
become a better trader immediately.